---
title: 维基百科著名程序员列表大全
date: 2017-10-27 18:22:16
tags:
---
#目录

<!-- TOC -->

- [维基百科著名程序员列表大全](#维基百科著名程序员列表大全)
- [野心勃勃的284人采访计划](#野心勃勃的284人采访计划)
- [Programmers at Work的评论](#Programmers at Work的评论)
- [第一本书16人名单](#第一本书16人名单)

<!-- /TOC -->

---
>[原文链接](http://blog.csdn.net/junecau/article/details/6272278)
##维基百科著名程序员列表大全

A
Scott Adams- one of the earliest developers of CP/M and DOS games
Leonard Adleman - co-inventor of the RSA algorithm (the A in the name stands for Adleman), coined the term computer virus
Alfred Aho - co-creator of AWK programming language (the A in the name stands for Aho), and main author of the famous Dragon book
JJ Allaire - creator of ColdFusion Application Server, CFML programming language
Paul Allen - Altair BASIC, Applesoft II BASIC, co-founded Microsoft
Eric Allman - sendmail, syslog
Marc Andreessen - co-creator of Mosaic, co-founder of Netscape
Bill Atkinson - QuickDraw, HyperCard
 
B
John Backus - FORTRAN, BNF
Richard Bartle - MUD, with Roy Trubshaw, the father of MUDs
Brian Behlendorf - Apache
Kent Beck - Created Extreme Programming and co-creator of JUnit
Donald Becker - Linux Ethernet drivers, Beowulf clustering
Doug Bell - Dungeon Master series of computer games
Fabrice Bellard - Creator of the FFMPEG open codec library and QEMU virtualization tools
Tim Berners-Lee - inventor of the World Wide Web
Daniel J. Bernstein - djbdns, qmail
Eric Bina - co-creator of Mosaic web browser
Marc Blank - co-creator of Zork
Joshua Bloch - core Java language designer, lead the Java collections framework project
Bert Bos - author of Argo web browser, co-author of Cascading Style Sheets
David Bradley - coder on the IBM PC project team who wrote the Control-Alt-Delete keyboard handler, embedded in all PC-compatible BIOSes
Andrew Braybrook - video games Paradroid and Uridium
Larry Breed - co-developer of APL/360
Jack E. Bresenham - creator of Bresenham's line algorithm
Dan Bricklin - co-creator of VisiCalc, the first personal spreadsheet program
Walter Bright - Digital Mars, First C++ compiler, author of the D programming Language.
Richard Brodie - Microsoft Word
Grady Booch - Co-creator of Unified Modeling Language
Andries Brouwer - Hack, former maintainer of man pager man(1), Linux kernel hacker
Danielle Bunten Berry (Dani Bunten) - M.U.L.E., multiplayer video game
C
Steve Capps - co-creator of Macintosh and Newton
John D. Carmack - first person shooters Doom, Quake
Vinton Cerf - TCP/IP, NCP
Ward Christensen - Wrote the first BBS (Bulletin Board System) system CBBS
Bram Cohen - BitTorrent protocol design and implementation
Alain Colmerauer - Prolog
Alan Cooper - Visual Basic
Alan Cox - a developer of the Linux kernel
Brad Cox - Objective-C
Mike Cowlishaw - REXX and NetRexx, LEXX editor, image processing, decimal arithmetic packages
Mark Crispin - inventor of IMAP, author of UW-IMAP, one of the reference implementations of IMAP4
Pamela Crossley - creator of SIMPLE for academic management of web pages
Ward Cunningham - inventor of the Wiki concept
William Crowther - Colossal Cave Adventure
Dave Cutler - architect of VMS, Windows NT
 
D
Ole-Johan Dahl - co-creator of SIMULA
James Duncan Davidson - creator of Tomcat, now part of the Jakarta Project
L. Peter Deutsch - Ghostscript, Assembler for PDP-1, XDS-940 timesharing system, QED original co-author
Edsger Dijkstra - contributions to ALGOL, Dijkstra's algorithm, Goto Statement Considered Harmful
Matt Dillon - programmer of various software including DICE and DragonflyBSD
Martin Dougiamas - creator and lead developer of Moodle
Adam Dunkels - author of the Contiki operating system, the lwIP and uIP embedded TCP/IP stacks, inventor of protothreads
 
E
Les Earnest - author of the finger program
Brendan Eich - creator of JavaScript
Larry Ellison - co-creator of Oracle database, co-founder of Oracle Corporation
Marc Ewing - creator of Red Hat Linux
 
F
Dan Farmer - Creator of COPS and SATAN Security Scanners
Stuart Feldman - creator of make, author of Fortran 77 compiler, part of original group that created Unix
David Filo - co-creator of Yahoo!
Brad Fitzpatrick - creator of memcached and Livejournal
Andrew Fluegelman - author PC-Talk communications software; he is considered one of the fathers of shareware
Brian Fox - creator of Bash, Readline, GNU Finger, Meta-HTML
Jim Fruchterman - founder of Arkenstone (now part of Freedom Scientific) and Benetech, created scanners for blind people
 
G
Elon Gasper - co-founded Bright Star Technology, patented realistic facial movements for in-game speech. HyperAnimator, Alphabet Blocks, etc.
Bill Gates - Altair BASIC, co-founded Microsoft
Steve Gibson - creator of SpinRite
John Gilmore - GDB
Adele Goldberg - co-inventor of Smalltalk
Ryan C. Gordon (a.k.a. Icculus) - Lokigames, ioquake3, MojoSetup, etc
James Gosling - Java, Gosling Emacs, NeWS
Bill Gosper - Macsyma, Lisp machine, hashlife, helped Donald Knuth on Vol.2 of The Art of Computer Programming (Semi-numerical algorithms)
Andrew Gower - RuneScape Classic, RuneScape, co-founded Jagex
Paul Gower - RuneScape Classic, RuneScape, co-founded Jagex
Paul Graham - Yahoo! Store, On Lisp, ANSI Common Lisp
John Graham-Cumming - author of POPFile, a Bayesian filter-based e-mail classifier
Ralph Griswold - co-creator of SNOBOL and creator of Icon programming language
Richard Greenblatt - Lisp machine, Incompatible Timesharing System, MacHack
Scott Guthrie, (a.k.a. ScottGu) - ASP.NET Creator
Andi Gutmans - co-creator of PHP programming language
 
H
Jim Hall - started the FreeDOS project
David Heinemeier Hansson - created the Ruby on Rails framework for developing web applications.
David Albert Huffman - created the Huffman Code compression algorithm.
Rebecca Heineman - Author of Bard's Tale III: Thief of Fate and Dragon Wars.
Anders Hejlsberg - Turbo Pascal, Borland Delphi, C#
Ted Henter - founder of Henter-Joyce (now part of Freedom Scientific) creator of Jaws, screen reader software for blind people
Andy Hertzfeld - co-creator of Macintosh, co-founder of General Magic, co-founder of Eazel
Rich Hickey - creator of the Clojure programming language
D. Richard Hipp - creator of SQLite
C. A. R. Hoare - first implementation of quicksort, Algol 60 compiler, Communicating sequential processes
James Holmes - Committer on Struts project, create of Struts Console
Grace Hopper - Navy Mark I computer, FLOW-MATIC
Dave Hyatt - co-author of Mozilla Firefox
 
I
Miguel de Icaza- GNOME project leader, initiator of the Mono project
Roberto Ierusalimschy - Lua leading architect
Dan Ingalls - co-inventor of Smalltalk and Bitblt
Geir Ivarsøy - co-creator of Opera web browser
Ken Iverson - APL, J
Toru Iwatani - creator of Pac-Man
J
Bo Jangeborg - Sinclair ZX Spectrum games
Paul Jardetzky - author of the server program for the first webcam
Lynne Jolitz - 386BSD
William Jolitz - 386BSD
Rod Johnson - creator of the Spring framework
Stephen C. Johnson - yacc
Bill Joy - BSD, vi; co-founded Sun Microsystems
Robert K. Jung - creator of ARJ
 
K
Mitch Kapor - Lotus 1-2-3, founded Lotus Development Corporation
Phil Katz - creator of the ZIP file format, author of PKZIP
Alan Kay - Smalltalk, Dynabook, Object-oriented programming, Squeak
Mel Kaye - a real programmer[1]
John Kemeny - co-inventor of BASIC
Stan Kelly-Bootle - Manchester Mark 1, The Devil's DP Dictionary
Brian Kernighan - co-creator of AWK programming language (the K in the name stands for Kernighan), author of ditroff text-formatting tool
Gary Kildall - CP/M
Tom Knight - Incompatible Timesharing System
Jim Knopf - aka Jim Button, author PC-File flatfile database; he is considered one of the fathers of shareware
Donald E. Knuth - TeX, CWEB, Metafont, The Art of Computer Programming, Concrete Mathematics
 
L
Tom Lane - primary author of libjpeg, major developer of PostgreSQL
Leslie Lamport - LaTeX
Butler Lampson - QED original co-author
Sam Lantinga - creator of SDL
Dick Lathwell - co-developer of APL/360
Chris Lattner
Samuel J Leffler - BSD, FlexFAX, libtiff, FreeBSD Wireless Device Drivers
Michael Lesk - Lex
Rasmus Lerdorf - original creator of PHP
Håkon Wium Lie - co-author of Cascading Style Sheets
Robert Love - Linux kernel developer
Ada Lovelace - First programmer (of Babbage Machines)
Al Lowe - father of the Leisure Suit Larry series
 
M
Raphael Manfredi - contributions to Perl, software architect and maintainer of gtk-gnutella
Khaled Mardam-Bey - Creator of mIRC (Internet Relay Chat Client)
Yukihiro Matsumoto - Ruby
John McCarthy - Lisp
Craig McClanahan - original author of Jakarta Struts, architect of Tomcat Catalina servlet container
Daniel D. McCracken - professor at City College and author of Guide to Algol Programming, Guide to Cobol Programming, Guide to Fortran Programming (1957)
Douglas McIlroy - pipes and filters, concept of software componentry, Unix tools (spell, diff, sort, join, graph, speak, tr, etc.)
Shawn McKenzie - AutoTheme
Marshall Kirk McKusick - BSD, work on FFS, implementor of soft updates
Bertrand Meyer - Eiffel, Object-oriented Software Construction, Design by contract
Bob Miner - co-creator of Oracle database, co-founder of Oracle Corporation
Jeff Minter - Psychedelic, and often llama-related video games
Lou Montulli - creator of Lynx browser, cookies, the blink tag, server push and client pull, HTTP proxying, HTTP over SSL, browser integration with animated GIFs, founding member of HTML working group at W3C
Bram Moolenaar - author of text-editor Vim
David Moon - Maclisp, ZetaLisp
Charles H. Moore - inventor of the Forth programming language
Roger Moore - co-developer of APL/360, creator of IPSANET, co-founder of I.P. Sharp Associates
Mike Muuss - author of ping, network tool to detect hosts
 
N
Patrick Naughton - early Java designer, xlock, HotJava
Peter Naur- Backus-Naur form, ALGOL 60
Col Needham- creator of the Internet Movie Database (IMDb)
Graham Nelson- creator of the Inform authoring system for Interactive fiction
Peter Norton- programmer of the famous file manager program, Norton Commander
Kristen Nygaard- SIMULA
O
Ed Oates - co-creator of Oracle database, co-founder of Oracle Corporation
Steve O'Donnell - founder of GOAL Systems, lead developer of WDU, Westi, creater of independent DOS utilities, developer of Prompt
Jarkko Oikarinen - creator of Internet Relay Chat (IRC)
Andrew and Philip Oliver, The Oliver Twins - Many Sinclair ZX Spectrum games including Dizzy
John Ousterhout - creator of Tcl/Tk
Mark Overmars - Professor, Well known for creation of Game Maker
 
P
Alexey Pajitnov - inventor of the game Tetris on the Electronica 60
Seymour Papert - Logo programming language
Tim Paterson - author of 86-DOS (QDOS)
Jeffrey Peterson - key free and open source software architect, creator of Quepasa
Charles Petzold - author of many Microsoft Windows programming books
Rob Pike - Wrote first bitmapped window system for Unix, co-creator of UTF-8 character encoding, author of text editor sam and programming environment acme, main author of Plan 9 and Inferno operating systems
Kent Pitman - technical contributor to the ANSI Common Lisp standard
Q
R
Theo de Raadt - Founding member of NetBSD, founder of OpenBSD and OpenSSH
Jef Raskin - started the Macintosh project in Apple Computer, designed Canon Cat computer, developed The Humane Environment program
Eric Raymond - Open Source movement, author of fetchmail
Hans Reiser - Creator of the ReiserFS file system
John Resig - Creator and lead developer of the jQuery JavaScript library
Craig Reynolds - Creator of the boids computer graphics simulation
Dennis Ritchie - C, Unix, Plan 9 from Bell Labs, Inferno
Ron Rivest - co-inventor of the RSA algorithm (the R in the name stands for Rivest)
John Romero- first person shooters Doom, Quake
Blake Ross - co-author of Mozilla Firefox
Guido van Rossum - Python
Jeff Rulifson - Lead programmer on the NLS project
Rusty Russell - Creator of iptables for linux
Steve Russell - First Lisp interpreter; original Spacewar! graphic computer game.
 
S
Bob Sabiston - Rotoshop, interpolating rotoscope animation software
Carl Sassenrath - Amiga, REBOL
Chris Sawyer - Developer of Roller Coaster Tycoon and the Transport Tycoon series
Bill Schelter - GNU Maxima, GNU Common Lisp
Randal L. Schwartz - Just another Perl hacker
Adi Shamir - co-inventor of the RSA algorithm (the S in the name stands for Shamir)
Mike Shaver - Founding member of the Mozilla Organization
Cliff Shaw - IPL, the first AI language
Zed Shaw - Wrote the Mongrel Web Server, for Ruby web applications.
Emily Short - prolific writer of Interactive fiction and co-developer of Inform version 7
Jacek Sieka - Developer of DC++ an open-source, peer-to-peer file-sharing client
Ken Silverman - creator of Duke Nukem 3D's graphics engine
Charles Simonyi - Hungarian notation, Microsoft Word
Colin Simpson - developer of CircuitLogix simulation software
Rich Skrenta - co-founder of the Open Directory Project
Matthew Smith - Sinclair ZX Spectrum games, including Manic Miner and Jet Set Willy
Henry Spencer - C News, Regex
Quentin Stafford-Fraser - author of the original VNC viewer, first Windows VNC server, client program for the first webcam
Richard Stallman - Emacs, GCC, GDB, founder and pioneer of the GNU Project, terminal-independent I/O pioneer on ITS, Lisp machine manual (chineual)
Guy Steele - Common Lisp, Scheme
Alexander Stepanov- creator of Standard Template Library
Bjarne Stroustrup - C++
Zeev Suraski - co-creator of PHP programming language
Gerald Jay Sussman - Scheme
Tim Sweeney - The Unreal engine, UnrealScript, ZZT
 
T
Andrew Tanenbaum - Minix
Audrey "Autrijus" Tang - designer of Pugs
Simon Tatham - NASM, PuTTY
Tomaž Tekavec - one of the main developers of NConstruct
Larry Tesler - the PUB markup language, the Smalltalk browser, debugger and inspector, and (with Tim Mott) the Gypsy word processor
Jon Stephenson von Tetzchner - co-creator of the Opera web browser
Avie Tevanian - author of the Mach kernel
Ken Thompson - main designer and author of Unix, Plan 9 and Inferno operating systems, B and Bon programming languages (precursors of C), inventor of UTF-8 character encoding, introduced regular expressions in QED.
Michael Tiemann - G++, GCC
Linus Torvalds - original author and current maintainer of the Linux kernel and creator of Git, a source code management system
Leonard H. Tower Jr. - GCC & GNU diff
Michael Toy - co-developer of the computer game Rogue
Andrew Tridgell - Samba, Rsync
Roy Trubshaw - MUD - together with Richard Bartle, the father of MUDs
Bob Truel - co-founder of the Open Directory Project
U
V
Wietse Venema - Postfix, SATAN, TCP Wrapper
Paul Vixie - BIND, Cron
Patrick Volkerding - Original author and the current maintainer of the Slackware Linux Distribution
 
W
Larry Wall - Warp (1980s space-war game), rn, patch, Perl
Bob Wallace - author PC-Write word processor; he is considered one of the fathers of shareware
John Walker - co-founder of Autodesk
John Warnock - creator of PostScript
Pei-Yuan Wei - author of Viola, one of the earliest graphical browsers
Peter J. Weinberger - co-creator of AWK (programming language) (the W in the name stands for Weinberger)
Andrew Welch - author of Maelstrom, Snapz Pro; founder of Ambrosia Software
David Wheeler - co-inventor of the subroutine; designer of WAKE; co-designer of Tiny Encryption Algorithm, XTEA, Burrows-Wheeler transform.
Arthur Whitney - A+, K
Bruce Wilcox - father of Computer Go, programmed NEMESIS Go Master.
Evan Williams Creator and co-founder of twitter
Roberta Williams and Ken Williams -- Sierra Entertainment, King's Quest, graphic adventure game
Sophie Wilson - Designer of the instruction set for the Acorn RISC Machine, author of BBC BASIC.
Dave Winer - developed XML-RPC, Frontier scripting language
Niklaus Wirth - Pascal, Modula-2, Oberon
Stephen Wolfram - creator of Mathematica
Don Woods - INTERCAL, Colossal Cave Adventure
Steve Wozniak - Breakout, Apple Integer BASIC, founded Apple Computer (with Steve Jobs)
Will Wright - Created the Sim City series and co-founded Maxis
 
X
Y
Jerry Yang - co-creator of Yahoo!
Victor Yngve - author of first string processing language, COMIT
Z
Jamie Zawinski - Lucid Emacs, Netscape, Mozilla, XScreenSaver
Philip Zimmermann - creator of encryption software PGP, the ZRTP protocol, and Zfone

##野心勃勃的284人采访计划


这是一份雄心勃勃的名单，Peter Seibel准备一一采访284位著名程序员的人员名单，可以说是涵括了IT历史上最有影响力的程序员，当然是在世的，要不他如何去采访啊。今年6月份，他第一阶段采访的成果就要出版了，前16个访谈成为第一本书，书名《Coders at Work 》。要是真的全部完成284人的采访，非得需要十多本书籍才行，那就真是著作等身不可。我们今天转贴他的这份名单，把她介绍给网友，参与或关注他的工程，作为我们互联网百科的建设指南。
Programmers at Work的评论编辑本段回目录

 来自: g9   
　　PC时代初期犹如拓荒小说里的南非。拓荒者们没有精巧的工具，没有丰厚的财力，没有经验，甚至没有足够的食物。一人一镐一簸箕，和百折不挠的狂热而已。然而风云际会，不定一镐下去，就是非洲之星。二、三十年前的黑客们就是PC时代的拓荒者。技术原始，无损他们奔放的想象力。工具粗陋，却激起他们征服的雄心。那时没有铺天盖地的类库，所以他们钻研P.J. Plauger的雄文。那时没有巨无霸一样的操作系统，所以他们细读Lion的经典。那时没有趁手的软件，所以他们创造奇迹。作为程序员，想来多少对这段动人往事好奇。Dan Bricklin怎么就做出了spreadsheet？Ray Ozzie从哪里得到关于群件的灵感？Jef Raskin如何让Machintosh成为PC的不朽经典？Butler Lampson发明所见即所得编辑器和Ethernet时，经历了怎样的顿悟？正如Peter Norvig在书评里所说，理解编程，除了学习黑客们铿锵的代码外，也许还要了解他们丰富的内心。虽说高手不可模仿，因为“学问跟他整个的性情陶融为一片，不仅有丰富的数量，还添上个别的性质；每一个琐细的事实，都在他的心血里沉浸滋养，长了神经和脉络，是你所学不会，学不到的”，但我们无疑可以受到不小的启发。如果能被他们打动，分享同样的激情，也算一庄美事。好在20年前Susan Lammers采访了书写历史的19名程序员。她把这些访谈集结出版，于是有了让众多程序员心潮澎湃的经典：Programmers at Work。记得是等公共汽车，为了排遣无聊翻看这本书。结果一看入神，错过了最后一班车。干脆走两小时路回家。一边走一边把书看完。当时我还几乎不懂编程。好比连烟都没抽过的人突然静脉注射高纯度海洛因，被刺激得死去活来。:-P 有兴趣的老大可以到这里读第一版的存档。 
　　 
　　当然，19人，400页怎么能写尽前辈风范呢？何况IT业是古龙书中高手辈出的天下，而不是金庸笔下老人无敌的江湖。20年时移势易，早有新人名动五洲。不知别人如何，反正俺盼着有人再出类似的书。还好，Apress在Founders at Work（也是好书，顺便推荐一下）上尝到了甜头，于是趁热打铁，请Practical Common Lisp(Lisp的书居然能得Jolt奖，还是值得翻一下的哈)的作者Peter Seibel写Coders At Work。Peter能把Common Lisp的宏编程写得通俗易懂，能让铁杆儿C++/Java程序员对Common Lisp动心，笔头自是没话说。他的采访对象也是俺这种小喽喽仰望的对象。这里汇总了他采访的候选对象，凡284人。有意思的是大家心目中的超级高手大体一致。按投票数排序，前25位都是大家耳熟能详并且深刻改变我们生活的牛程。后面的就见仁见智了。比如说Google的Jeff Dean居然排在121位。而近几年光说不练Paul Graham排在第23位。下面是已经答应接受采访的程序员名单，让人神往： 
　　Joe Armstrong — Erlang作者 
　　Bernie Cosell — ARPANET的IMP主要作者之一 
　　Simon Peyton Jones — Haskell的发明人之一 
　　Alan Kay — Smalltalk的发明人 
　　Donald Knuth — 《编程的艺术》和Tex的作者. 
　　Peter Norvig — AI: A Modern Approach和Paradigms of Artificial Intelligence Programming的作者 
　　Ken Thompson — Unix的发明人 
　　Jamie Zawinski — XEmacs和Netscape的主程

##第一本书16人名单编辑本段

Frances Allen: Pioneer in optimizing compilers, first woman to win the Turing Award (2006) and first female IBM fellow 
Joe Armstrong: Inventor of Erlang 
Joshua Bloch: Author of the Java collections framework, now at Google 
Bernie Cosell: One of the main software guys behind the original ARPANET IMPs and a master debugger 
Douglas Crockford: JSON founder, JavaScript architect at Yahoo! 
L. Peter Deutsch: Author of Ghostscript, implementer of Smalltalk-80 at Xerox PARC and Lisp 1.5 on PDP-1 
Brendan Eich: Inventor of JavaScript, CTO of the Mozilla Corporation 
Brad Fitzpatrick: Writer of LiveJournal, OpenID, memcached, and Perlbal 
Dan Ingalls: Smalltalk implementor and designer 
Simon Peyton Jones: Coinventor of Haskell and lead designer of Glasgow Haskell Compiler 
Donald Knuth: Author of The Art of Computer Programming and creator of TeX 
Peter Norvig: Director of Research at Google and author of the standard text on AI 
Guy Steele: Coinventor of Scheme and part of the Common Lisp Gang of Five, currently working on Fortress 
Ken Thompson: Inventor of UNIX 
Jamie Zawinski: Author of XEmacs and early Netscape/Mozilla hacker
完整的284人名单如下（根据知名度、信息量和字母排序等不同角度排列）
根据字母排序名单编辑本段回目录

# Name Description 
1 Hal Abelson Abelson of Abelson and Sussman. MIT professor. 
2 Michael Abrash Optimization expert 
3 Matthew Ahrens Works on ZFS in kernel group at Sun 
4 Frances Allen Pioneer in optimizing compilers. First woman to win Turing Award (2006) and first woman IBM fellow. 
5 Paul Allen Co-founded Microsoft. 
6 Eric Allman Wrote sendmail 
7 Marc Andreessen Co-wrote Mosaic. Founded Netscape. 
8 Joe Armstrong Inventor of Erlang 
9 Bill Atkinson Early Mac developer. Designed and implemented Hypercard 
10 Henry Baker One of the founder of Symbolics; comp sci. researcher 
11 Amir Ban Co-author of Junior chess program. 
12 Marco Baringer Common Lisp hacker, author of Uncommon Web 
13 Rob Barnaby Worked some on early Logo, wrote Word Star. Also did Stringcomp, an early string processing language. 
14 Kent Beck Creator of XP 
15 Brian Behlendorf Apache organizer 
16 Fabrice Bellard Wrote QEMU, TinyCC, FFMPEG; Winner of 2001 IOCCC 
17 Erik Benson Cheif Janitorial Officer - Robot Coop 
18 Jon Bentley Author of Programming Pearls books. 
19 Dan Bernstein Wrote djbns and qmail 
20 Eric Bina Co-wrote Mosaic. 
21 Ola Bini Core JRuby developer 
22 Trevor Blackwell Principal at Viaweb. Now founder and CEO of Anybots 
23 Jim Blinn Graphics Fellow at Microsoft 
24 Joshua Bloch Author of Java collections framework. Now at Google. 
25 Rusty Bobrow BBNer doing work in computational linguistics, speech recognition, and artificial intelligence. 
26 Barry Boehem Software metrics guru 
27 Jeff Bonwick Chief architect of ZFS 
28 Keith Bostic Worked on BSD at Berkeley and one of the original authors of BerkeleyDB 
29 Nick Bradbury Wrote HomeSite, TopStyle, and FeedDemon 
30 Dan Bricklin Wrote Visicalc 
31 Sergey Brin Founded Google 
32 Avi Bryant Co-founder Dabble DB 
33 Paul Buchheit Creator of GMail 
34 Shay Bushinsky Co-author of Junior chess program. 
35 John Carmack Founder of id Software; lead programmer of Doom, Quake, and others. 
36 Vinton Cerf Father of TCP/IP 
37 Donald Chamberlin Principle designer of SQL; ACM Intercollegiate Programming Contest judge, 1998-2005 
38 Raymond Chen Worked on OS/2, Windows 95, and Direct X 
39 Bram Cohen Wrote BitTorrent 
40 Alain Colmerauer Invented Prolog 
41 Damian Conway Perl hacker and three time winner of the Larry Wall award. Wrote Lingua::Romana::Perligata and others. 
42 Bernie Cosell One of the main software guys behind the original ARPANET IMP's and a master debugger. 
43 Alan Cox One of Linus Torvalds's main lieutenants. Wrote Linux TCP/IP code. 
44 Brad Cox Invented Objective C 
45 Russ Cox Worked on Plan 9. Represented U.S. at 1995 International Olympiad in Informatics 
46 Dennis Crawley DodgeBall 
47 Douglas Crockford JSON founder, JavaScript Architect at Yahoo! 
48 Will Crowther Wrote Adventure and the inner packet processing loop of the original internet IMPs 
49 Ward Cunningham Wrote the first Wiki and FIT. 
50 David Cutler Architect of VMS and Windows NT 
51 James Duncan Davidson Started Apache Ant and Apache Tomcat projects. Author of Java Servlet API and Java API for XML processing J2EE specifications. 
52 Jeff Dean Google Fellow in Systems Infrastructure Group. Co-inventor of MapReduce. 
53 Steve Dekorte Invented Io language. 
54 L. Peter Deutsch Author of Ghostscript, Implemented Smalltalk-80 at Xerox PARC and Lisp 1.5 on PDP-1 
55 Whitfield Diffie Discovered principle of public key cryptography 
56 Matt Dillon FreeBSD hacker, founded DragonFly BSD project 
57 Mark Jason Dominus Perl programmer; author of Higher Order Perl 
58 Chrilly Donninger Author of the Hydra chess program. 
59 Tom Duff Invented Duff's device and noted graphics programmer 
60 Bruce Eckel Founding member of ANSI/ISO C++ committee. Author of Thinking in Java and Thinking in C++. 
61 Brendan Eich Inventor of Javascript. CTO of the Mozilla Corporation 
62 Thomas Enebo Principle JRuby developer 
63 Douglas Engelbart Invented computer mouse 
64 Dan Farmer Co-wrote Satan and TCT 
65 Richard Fateman Computer algebraist. Worked on MacSysma and Maxima 
66 Michael Feathers XP guru 
67 Edward Feigenbaum Father of Expert Systems 
68 Mathias Feist Co-author of Fritz chess program. 
69 Roy Fielding One of the principle authors of HTTP specification. Invented REST. Co-founder of Apache project 
70 Brad Fitzpatrick Wrote LiveJournal, OpenID, memcached, Perlbal 
71 Mark Fletcher Founder Bloglines, egroups 
72 John Foderaro Original author of Franz's Allegro Common Lisp 
73 Amy Fowler Core Java Swing developer 
74 Martin Fowler Chief Scientist at Thoughtworks. Author of Refactoring and many other books. 
75 Dave Fox Lisp hacker, directior of Lispworks Ltd. 
76 Justin Frankel Wrote Winamp, NSIS, and Gnutella 
77 Janus Friis Founder of Joost, Skype, Kazaa 
78 Richard Gabriel Lisper and Poet. Currently a Distinguished Engineer at IBM. Chair of OOPSLA 2007. 
79 Erich Gamma One of the Gang of Four 
80 Bill Gates Wrote BASIC for Altair 
81 Andy Gavin Co-founder of Naughty Dog software. Wrote GOAL which was used to develop Jak and Daxter. 
82 Dan Geer Security expert 
83 Dominic Giampaolo Wrote BeOS file system 
84 John Gilmore Contributor to several GNU projects. Co-author of Bootstrap protocol which became DHCP. Founder of EFF, Cypherpunks mailing list, and Cygnus solutions.  
85 Adele Goldberg Smalltalk designer and documenter. 
86 Luke Gorrie Lisp and Erlang hacker. Project lead for SLIME. 
87 James Gosling Invented Java, NeWS windowing system. 
88 Bill Gosper One of the original MIT hackers. Worked on Lisp machines, Maclisp, and Macsyma  
89 Paul Graham Lisp hacker and author. 
90 Richard Greenblatt Main implementor of Maclisp on PDP-6. Co-founded Lisp Machines, Inc. 
91 Philip Greenspun Author of Greenspun's Tenth Law and sometimes instructor at MIT 
92 Paul Haeberli Computer graphics researcher 
93 David Heinemeier Hansson Invented Rails 
94 John Harper Wrote librep and the sawfish window manager 
95 Brian Harvey UC Comp Sci professor. Author of Berkeley Logo 
96 Frank Heart Managed the group that built the ARPANET. 
97 Charles Hedrick Lisp Unix hacker 
98 Anders Hejlsberg Lead architect of C#, Architect of Delphi at Borland. Wrote what became Turbo Pascal 
99 Richard Helm One of the Gang of Four 
100 Val Henson Kernel hacker and file systems specialist. 
101 Andy Hertzfeld Key Macintosh developer 
102 Danny Hillis Founder of Thinking Machines 
103 Richard Hipp Wrote sqlite embedded SQL database 
104 Neil Hodgson Wrote Scintilla and SciTE 
105 Adrian Holovaty Lead developer of Django 
106 Don Hopkins Invented Pie Menus, working on One Laptop Per Child project. 
107 Jim Hugunin Original author of Iron Python, now at Microsoft working on dynamic languages on the CLR. Co-designer of AspectJ language, lead development through 1.1 release. 
108 Roger Hui Implementor of of J language 
109 Watts Humphrey CMM guru. 
110 Andrew Hunt Co-founder of Pragmatic Programmers 
111 Urs Hölzle Researcher behind Sun's HotSpot JVM technology. 
112 Miguel de Icaza Wrote GNOME and Mono 
113 Roberto Ierusalimschy Invented Lua 
114 Dan Ingalls Smalltalk implementor and designer. 
115 Lars Magne Ingebrigtsen Wrote Gnus and Gmane 
116 Van Jacobson Redesigned TCP/IP flow control algorithms, saving the net from total collapse. Eponymous inventor of Van Jacobson TCP/IP header compression. 
117 Spencer Janssen Wrote xmonad, a tiling window manager implemened in Haskell 
118 Ralph Johnson One of the Gang of Four 
119 Rod Johnson Original author of Spring Framework 
120 Simon Peyton Jones Co-inventor of Haskell and lead designer of Glasgow Haskell Compiler. 
121 Rainer Joswig Contributes to CL-HTTP 
122 Bill Joy Wrote BSD TCP/IP stack, vi 
123 Poul-Henning Kamp FreeBSD kernel hacker 
124 Jacob Kaplan-Moss Django developer. Wrote Tivo apps in Python and now hacking Python on the PSP 
125 Mitchell Kapor Founded Lotus 
126 Mike Karels System architect of BSD 4.3 and 4.4 releases. 
127 Peter Karp Responsible for the development of BioCyc 
128 Richard Karp Researcher in theory of algorithms 
129 Alan Kay Inventor of Smalltalk. Coined the term "object-oriented programming". 
130 Richard Kelsey Co-wrote Scheme 48 and edited R5RS 
131 Brian Kernighan The K in AWK and K&R. Author of the original "hello, world" program. 
132 Gregor Kiczales Wrote Common Lisp MOP. Invented Aspect Oriented programming. 
133 Spencer Kimball Co-wrote GIMP. Googler. 
134 Gavin King Original author of Hibernate, JBoss Seam 
135 Jon Kleinberg Cornell Comp. Sci. professor. 
136 Thomas Knoll Original creator of Photoshop. 
137 Donald Knuth Author of The Art of Computer Programming and TeX 
138 Peter-Paul Koch Javascript guru. Maintains quirksmode website. 
139 Dierk Koenig. Groovy, Grails contributor 
140 David Korn Wrote the Korn shell 
141 Guillaume Laforge Groovy project lead 
142 Leslie Lamport Distributed systems researcher and developer of LaTeX 
143 Butler Lampson Systems pioneer. Worked on Xerox's Alto. 
144 Tom Lane Core PostgreSQL developer responsible for optimizer. 
145 Doug Lea Concurrency expert and systems programmer. 
146 Sam Leffler BSD hacker. Wrote FreeBSD wi-fi drivers 
147 Rasmus Lerdorf Invented PHP 
148 Xavier Leroy Primary developer of OCaml. Wrote LinuxThreads threading package used in pre 2.6 Linux kernels 
149 Max Levchin Co-founder Pay Pal & Slide 
150 Greg Linden Founder Findory & worked at Amazon 
151 Tom Lord Scheme and C hacker. Wrote GNU Arch 
152 Matt Mackall Wrote Mecurial version control system. 
153 Paul Mackerras Samba developer 
154 Udi Manber VP of Engineering at Google. Co-author of Glimpse, Agrep, and Harvest search packages. 
155 Joe Marshall Lisp hacker 
156 Alex Martelli Co-author of Python Cookbook and Author of Python in a Nutshell 
157 Robert Martin Founder and CEO of Object Mentor. C++ and Agile methods expert. 
158 John Mashey Early Unix hacker 
159 Yukihiro Matsumoto Invented Ruby 
160 Peter Mattis Co-wrote GIMP. Googler. 
161 Mark Maybee Worked on ZFS DMU at Sun. 
162 John McCarthy Invented Lisp 
163 Craig McClanahan Original author of Apache Struts 
164 Rob McCool Wrote NCSA HTTPd; drafted Common Gateway Interface specification 
165 Douglas McIlroy Unix toolsmith; invented Unix pipelines 
166 Scott McKay Lisp and Dylan designer. 
167 Marshall Kirk McKusick Designed Berkeley Fast File System. 
168 Eric Meijer Architect in SQL server group at Microsoft working on combining functional programming with the CLR and SQL 
169 Austin Meyer Author of X-Plane and Space Combat flight simulators 
170 Bertrand Meyer Invented Eiffel 
171 Stefan Meyer-Kahlen Author of Shredder chess program 
172 Scott Meyers Author of Effective C++, More Effective C++, Effective STL 
173 Marvin Minsky Artifical Intelligence researcher 
174 Jeff Mogul HP Fellow working on networking performance. Contributed to HTTP 1.1 spec 
175 Ingo Molnár Linux hacker, author of many Linux perfomance improvements. 
176 Bruce Momjian Core PostgreSQL developer 
177 Bram Moolenaar Wrote VIM (Vi IMproved) 
178 Chuck Moore Invented Forth 
179 Robert Morris Wrote the Internet Worm and co-founded Viaweb with Paul Graham 
180 Frans Morsch Co-author of Fritz chess program. 
181 Sape Mullender Member of Technical Staff, Lucent Technologies,Bell Labs Innovations, Computing Sciences Research, Murray Hill, New Jersey. 
182 Erik Naggum Lisp hacker 
183 Graham Nelson Invented Inform language used to program interatvive fiction 
184 Peter Norton Wrote the first version of the Norton Utilities 
185 Peter Norvig Director of Research at Google and author of the standard text on AI. 
186 Charles Nutter Principle JRuby developer 
187 Martin Odersky Invented Scala 
188 Jarkko Oikarinen Started IRC 
189 Rick Olsen Core Rails developer, wrote Mephisto and Beast 
190 Wouter van Oortmerssen Game programmer and language designer 
191 Larry Osterman Longtime Microsoftie 
192 John Ousterhout Invented TCL 
193 Ray Ozzie Main architect of Lotus Notes. Now Chief Software Architect at Microsoft. 
194 Keith Packard X Windows hacker, founded X.Org Server project 
195 Larry Page Founded Google 
196 Radia Perlman Invented spanning-tree protocol 
197 Tim Peters Python hacker and author of Spambayes 
198 Evan Phoenix Author of Rubinus compiler/virtual machine for Ruby 
199 Rob Pike Author of first bitmap windowing system for Unix. Worked on Plan 9. Now works at Google. 
200 Mark Pilgrim Wrote Universal Feed Parser. Author of Dive into Python and Dive into Accessibility.  
201 Dan Piponi Graphics programmer and theorist. 
202 Kent Pitman Technical Editor of Common Lisp ANSI standard 
203 P.J. Plauger Worked on first commercial C compiler 
204 Theo de Raadt Founder of OpenBSD project. Original author of OpenSSH. 
205 Allison Randal Architect of Parrot virtual machine 
206 Marcus Ranum Security expert and author of Firewall Toolkit and Network Flight Recorder 
207 Elizabeth Rather Colleague of Chuck Moore and second ever Forth programmer 
208 Naval Ravikanth Founder vast.com 
209 Jonathan Rees Designed T dialect of Scheme and co-wrote Scheme 48 
210 Joel Reymont Open Poker 
211 Dennis Ritchie Invented C and contributed to development of UNIX 
212 Graeme Rocher Grails project lead 
213 Guido van Rossum Invented Python 
214 Peter Van Roy Contributor to Mozart/Oz programming system. Author of Concepts, Techniques, and Models of Computer Programming 
215 Jeff Rubin According to Richard Gabriel a "code-writing savant". 
216 Alessandro Rubini Linux kernel hacker 
217 Zack Rusin Qt graphics guru 
218 Alex Russell Created Dojo Javascript library 
219 Paul 'Rusty' Russell One of Linus Torvald's top deputies. Wrote ipchains and netfilter/iptables packet filtering code 
220 Steve Russell One of John McCarthy's grad students. Brought Lisp to life by hand-coding EVAL in assembler. Wrote Spacewar. 
221 Salvatore Sanfilippo Software developer and security expert 
222 Michael C. Schatz Author of a number of gene sequencing programs. 
223 Bob Scheifler Led the development of X Windows while the X Consortium was at MIT 
224 Gavin Schmidt Programmer on GISS climate modeling software. 
225 Bruce Schneier Security expert. Creator of Twofish block cipher. 
226 Carla Schroder Long-time Linux geek. 
227 Munjal Shah Co-founder Riya 
228 Zed Shaw Wrote Mongrel (Rails HTTP server) 
229 Wil Shipley Wrote Delicious Monster. Founded Omni Group 
230 Olin Shivers Comp Sci professor interested in Scheme and ML. Wrote scsh 
231 Mark Shuttleworth Founded Thawte and Ubuntu project. Previously a Debian developer 
232 Charles Simonyi Invented Hungarian notation. Original author of Microsoft Word. Head of the IP project at Microsoft, now running intentsoft.com 
233 Alvy Ray Smith Graphics pioneer. Worked at LucasFilm, helped found Pixar. 
234 John Socha Wrote many DOS software packages for Norton Computing 
235 Graham Spencer Co-founder Excite & Jot-Spot 
236 Henry Spencer Wrote Unix regex library later incorporated into Tcl and Perl. Co-wrote C News news server 
237 Ellen Spertus Head of Interdisciplinary Computer Science department at Mills College 
238 Joel Spolsky FogCreekSoftware 
239 Richard Stallman Wrote Emacs, gcc, and started the Free Software movement. 
240 Guy Steele Co-inventor of Scheme and part of the Common Lisp Gang of Five. Currently working on Fortress. 
241 Alexander Stepanov Author of the Standard Template Library for C++ 
242 Sam Stephenson Created Prototype Javascript library 
243 Don Stewart Haskell hacker 
244 Why the lucky stiff Core Ruby developer and free spirit 
245 Biz Stone Twitter 
246 Bjarne Stroustrup Invented C++ 
247 Dan Sugalski Original architect of Parrot VM 
248 Gerald Jay Sussman Co-creator of Scheme and co-author of The Structure And Interpretation of Computer Programs. 
249 Ivan Sutherland Invented Sketchpad, precursor to modern GUIs 
250 Aaron Swartz Invented web.py 
251 Tim Sweeney Founder of Epic Games. Wrote the Unreal Engine. 
252 Eric Swildens Founder Microline Software, Co-founder Speedera Networks 
253 Andrew Tanenbaum Created Minix, advocate for micro-kernels. 
254 Audrey Tang Leader of Pugs project to implement Perl 6 in Haskell 
255 Simon Tatham Author of PuTTY 
256 Robert Thau Early Apache developer. Started Bianca Troll 
257 Dave Thomas Co-founder of Pragmatic Programmers 
258 Ken Thompson Inventor of UNIX 
259 Ray Tomlinson Wrote first networked email system and gave us the @-sign in email addresses. 
260 Chris Torek BSDI os hacker 
261 Linus Torvalds Wrote and maintains Linux kernel. Wrote GIT version control system. 
262 Andrew Tridgell Wrote Samba file server and co-invented rsync algorithm 
263 Wietse Venema Wrote Postfix. Co-wrote Satan and TCT 
264 Paul Vixie Wrote BIND 
265 John Vlissides One of the Gang of Four 
266 Philip Wadler Professor of Theoretical Computer Science at the University of Edinburgh. Contributed to design of Java, Haskell, and XQuery. 
267 Dick Wall Co-host of the Java Posse podcast. Works at Google. 
268 Larry Wall Invented Perl 
269 Chris Wanstrath Notable Rails programmer 
270 Peter Weinberger The W in AWK 
271 Dan Weinreb Founder of Symbolics. Now at ITA. 
272 Edi Weitz Lisp library hacker extraordinaire. Co-organizer of the European Common Lisp Meetings 2005 and 2006 
273 Arthur Whitney Invented A+ and K languages and wrote prototype of J language 
274 Evan Williams Twitter 
275 Simon Willison Django developer. Hacker Liason for Yahoo UK 
276 Niklaus Wirth Invented Pascal, Modula, Oberon 
277 Stephen Wolfram Invented Mathematica 
278 Steve Wozniak Wrote most of the original Apple II software. 
279 Ka-Ping Yee Python hacker extraordinaire. 
280 Steve Yegge Blogger and Googler 
281 Ilya Zakharevich Major contributor to perl5 including a major reworking of the regex engine.  
282 Jamie Zawinski Author of XEmacs and early Netscape/Mozilla hacker. 
283 Niklas Zennstrom Founder of Joost, Skype, Kazaa 
284 Mark Zuckerberg Founder and CEO of Facebook
根据知名度排序名单编辑本段回目录

# Name Description 
1 Peter Norvig Director of Research at Google and author of the standard text on AI. 
2 Alan Kay Inventor of Smalltalk. Coined the term "object-oriented programming". 
3 Guy Steele Co-inventor of Scheme and part of the Common Lisp Gang of Five. Currently working on Fortress. 
4 Donald Knuth Author of The Art of Computer Programming and TeX 
5 Gerald Jay Sussman Co-creator of Scheme and co-author of The Structure And Interpretation of Computer Programs. 
6 John McCarthy Invented Lisp 
7 John Carmack Founder of id Software; lead programmer of Doom, Quake, and others. 
8 Dennis Ritchie Invented C and contributed to development of UNIX 
9 Joe Armstrong Inventor of Erlang 
10 Ken Thompson Inventor of UNIX 
11 Brian Kernighan The K in AWK and K&R. Author of the original "hello, world" program. 
12 Guido van Rossum Invented Python 
13 Linus Torvalds Wrote and maintains Linux kernel. Wrote GIT version control system. 
14 Steve Wozniak Wrote most of the original Apple II software. 
15 Bill Joy Wrote BSD TCP/IP stack, vi 
16 Simon Peyton Jones Co-inventor of Haskell and lead designer of Glasgow Haskell Compiler. 
17 Larry Wall Invented Perl 
18 Alan Cox One of Linus Torvalds's main lieutenants. Wrote Linux TCP/IP code. 
19 Jamie Zawinski Author of XEmacs and early Netscape/Mozilla hacker. 
20 Ward Cunningham Wrote the first Wiki and FIT. 
21 Chuck Moore Invented Forth 
22 Theo de Raadt Founder of OpenBSD project. Original author of OpenSSH. 
23 Tim Sweeney Founder of Epic Games. Wrote the Unreal Engine. 
24 Edi Weitz Lisp library hacker extraordinaire. Co-organizer of the European Common Lisp Meetings 2005 and 2006 
25 Robert Morris Wrote the Internet Worm and co-founded Viaweb with Paul Graham 
26 Brendan Eich Inventor of Javascript. CTO of the Mozilla Corporation 
27 Paul Graham Lisp hacker and author. 
28 Yukihiro Matsumoto Invented Ruby 
29 Fabrice Bellard Wrote QEMU, TinyCC, FFMPEG; Winner of 2001 IOCCC 
30 Dan Bernstein Wrote djbns and qmail 
31 Andrew Tridgell Wrote Samba file server and co-invented rsync algorithm 
32 Andrew Tanenbaum Created Minix, advocate for micro-kernels. 
33 Andy Gavin Co-founder of Naughty Dog software. Wrote GOAL which was used to develop Jak and Daxter. 
34 Brad Fitzpatrick Wrote LiveJournal, OpenID, memcached, Perlbal 
35 Bram Cohen Wrote BitTorrent 
36 Michael Abrash Optimization expert 
37 Hal Abelson Abelson of Abelson and Sussman. MIT professor. 
38 Miguel de Icaza Wrote GNOME and Mono 
39 Richard Stallman Wrote Emacs, gcc, and started the Free Software movement. 
40 Rob Pike Author of first bitmap windowing system for Unix. Worked on Plan 9. Now works at Google. 
41 Douglas Engelbart Invented computer mouse 
42 Audrey Tang Leader of Pugs project to implement Perl 6 in Haskell 
43 Marvin Minsky Artifical Intelligence researcher 
44 Stephen Wolfram Invented Mathematica 
45 Bruce Schneier Security expert. Creator of Twofish block cipher. 
46 Philip Greenspun Author of Greenspun's Tenth Law and sometimes instructor at MIT 
47 Frances Allen Pioneer in optimizing compilers. First woman to win Turing Award (2006) and first woman IBM fellow. 
48 Erik Naggum Lisp hacker 
49 James Gosling Invented Java, NeWS windowing system. 
50 Paul Buchheit Creator of GMail 
51 Bjarne Stroustrup Invented C++ 
52 Anders Hejlsberg Lead architect of C#, Architect of Delphi at Borland. Wrote what became Turbo Pascal 
53 Justin Frankel Wrote Winamp, NSIS, and Gnutella 
54 David Heinemeier Hansson Invented Rails 
55 Bill Gosper One of the original MIT hackers. Worked on Lisp machines, Maclisp, and Macsyma  
56 L. Peter Deutsch Author of Ghostscript, Implemented Smalltalk-80 at Xerox PARC and Lisp 1.5 on PDP-1 
57 Whitfield Diffie Discovered principle of public key cryptography 
58 Wil Shipley Wrote Delicious Monster. Founded Omni Group 
59 Andy Hertzfeld Key Macintosh developer 
60 Raymond Chen Worked on OS/2, Windows 95, and Direct X 
61 Richard Gabriel Lisper and Poet. Currently a Distinguished Engineer at IBM. Chair of OOPSLA 2007. 
62 Charles Simonyi Invented Hungarian notation. Original author of Microsoft Word. Head of the IP project at Microsoft, now running intentsoft.com 
63 Sergey Brin Founded Google 
64 Gregor Kiczales Wrote Common Lisp MOP. Invented Aspect Oriented programming. 
65 Martin Fowler Chief Scientist at Thoughtworks. Author of Refactoring and many other books. 
66 Dan Ingalls Smalltalk implementor and designer. 
67 Steve Yegge Blogger and Googler 
68 Matt Dillon FreeBSD hacker, founded DragonFly BSD project 
69 Leslie Lamport Distributed systems researcher and developer of LaTeX 
70 Why the lucky stiff Core Ruby developer and free spirit 
71 Xavier Leroy Primary developer of OCaml. Wrote LinuxThreads threading package used in pre 2.6 Linux kernels 
72 Alexander Stepanov Author of the Standard Template Library for C++ 
73 Douglas Crockford JSON founder, JavaScript Architect at Yahoo! 
74 Larry Page Founded Google 
75 Marc Andreessen Co-wrote Mosaic. Founded Netscape. 
76 Douglas McIlroy Unix toolsmith; invented Unix pipelines 
77 Bill Atkinson Early Mac developer. Designed and implemented Hypercard 
78 David Cutler Architect of VMS and Windows NT 
79 Zed Shaw Wrote Mongrel (Rails HTTP server) 
80 Danny Hillis Founder of Thinking Machines 
81 Roy Fielding One of the principle authors of HTTP specification. Invented REST. Co-founder of Apache project 
82 Olin Shivers Comp Sci professor interested in Scheme and ML. Wrote scsh 
83 Vinton Cerf Father of TCP/IP 
84 Allison Randal Architect of Parrot virtual machine 
85 Aaron Swartz Invented web.py 
86 Trevor Blackwell Principal at Viaweb. Now founder and CEO of Anybots 
87 Bruce Momjian Core PostgreSQL developer 
88 Van Jacobson Redesigned TCP/IP flow control algorithms, saving the net from total collapse. Eponymous inventor of Van Jacobson TCP/IP header compression. 
89 Mark Pilgrim Wrote Universal Feed Parser. Author of Dive into Python and Dive into Accessibility.  
90 Bill Gates Wrote BASIC for Altair 
91 Henry Baker One of the founder of Symbolics; comp sci. researcher 
92 Brad Cox Invented Objective C 
93 Jonathan Rees Designed T dialect of Scheme and co-wrote Scheme 48 
94 Bertrand Meyer Invented Eiffel 
95 Ivan Sutherland Invented Sketchpad, precursor to modern GUIs 
96 Niklaus Wirth Invented Pascal, Modula, Oberon 
97 Alex Martelli Co-author of Python Cookbook and Author of Python in a Nutshell 
98 Philip Wadler Professor of Theoretical Computer Science at the University of Edinburgh. Contributed to design of Java, Haskell, and XQuery. 
99 Mark Shuttleworth Founded Thawte and Ubuntu project. Previously a Debian developer 
100 Tom Lane Core PostgreSQL developer responsible for optimizer. 
101 Richard Hipp Wrote sqlite embedded SQL database 
102 Ingo Molnár Linux hacker, author of many Linux perfomance improvements. 
103 Bruce Eckel Founding member of ANSI/ISO C++ committee. Author of Thinking in Java and Thinking in C++. 
104 Kent Pitman Technical Editor of Common Lisp ANSI standard 
105 Jeff Rubin According to Richard Gabriel a "code-writing savant". 
106 Richard Greenblatt Main implementor of Maclisp on PDP-6. Co-founded Lisp Machines, Inc. 
107 Adrian Holovaty Lead developer of Django 
108 Jon Bentley Author of Programming Pearls books. 
109 Kent Beck Creator of XP 
110 Bram Moolenaar Wrote VIM (Vi IMproved) 
111 Tom Duff Invented Duff's device and noted graphics programmer 
112 Dave Fox Lisp hacker, directior of Lispworks Ltd. 
113 Luke Gorrie Lisp and Erlang hacker. Project lead for SLIME. 
114 Marco Baringer Common Lisp hacker, author of Uncommon Web 
115 Alain Colmerauer Invented Prolog 
116 Don Stewart Haskell hacker 
117 John Foderaro Original author of Franz's Allegro Common Lisp 
118 Elizabeth Rather Colleague of Chuck Moore and second ever Forth programmer 
119 Ka-Ping Yee Python hacker extraordinaire. 
120 Jeff Dean Google Fellow in Systems Infrastructure Group. Co-inventor of MapReduce. 
121 Tim Peters Python hacker and author of Spambayes 
122 Rasmus Lerdorf Invented PHP 
123 Alvy Ray Smith Graphics pioneer. Worked at LucasFilm, helped found Pixar. 
124 Marshall Kirk McKusick Designed Berkeley Fast File System. 
125 Steve Russell One of John McCarthy's grad students. Brought Lisp to life by hand-coding EVAL in assembler. Wrote Spacewar. 
126 Damian Conway Perl hacker and three time winner of the Larry Wall award. Wrote Lingua::Romana::Perligata and others. 
127 Ola Bini Core JRuby developer 
128 Poul-Henning Kamp FreeBSD kernel hacker 
129 Ellen Spertus Head of Interdisciplinary Computer Science department at Mills College 
130 Wietse Venema Wrote Postfix. Co-wrote Satan and TCT 
131 Charles Nutter Principle JRuby developer 
132 Jim Hugunin Original author of Iron Python, now at Microsoft working on dynamic languages on the CLR. Co-designer of AspectJ language, lead development through 1.1 release. 
133 Roberto Ierusalimschy Invented Lua 
134 Edward Feigenbaum Father of Expert Systems 
135 Joshua Bloch Author of Java collections framework. Now at Google. 
136 Urs Hölzle Researcher behind Sun's HotSpot JVM technology. 
137 P.J. Plauger Worked on first commercial C compiler 
138 Tom Lord Scheme and C hacker. Wrote GNU Arch 
139 Erich Gamma One of the Gang of Four 
140 Jarkko Oikarinen Started IRC 
141 Mitchell Kapor Founded Lotus 
142 Don Hopkins Invented Pie Menus, working on One Laptop Per Child project. 
143 Paul Vixie Wrote BIND 
144 Michael Feathers XP guru 
145 Janus Friis Founder of Joost, Skype, Kazaa 
146 John Ousterhout Invented TCL 
147 Graham Nelson Invented Inform language used to program interatvive fiction 
148 Eric Meijer Architect in SQL server group at Microsoft working on combining functional programming with the CLR and SQL 
149 Udi Manber VP of Engineering at Google. Co-author of Glimpse, Agrep, and Harvest search packages. 
150 Mark Zuckerberg Founder and CEO of Facebook 
151 Scott McKay Lisp and Dylan designer. 
152 Keith Packard X Windows hacker, founded X.Org Server project 
153 Paul Allen Co-founded Microsoft. 
154 Richard Kelsey Co-wrote Scheme 48 and edited R5RS 
155 Amy Fowler Core Java Swing developer 
156 Butler Lampson Systems pioneer. Worked on Xerox's Alto. 
157 Dan Bricklin Wrote Visicalc 
158 Nick Bradbury Wrote HomeSite, TopStyle, and FeedDemon 
159 Ralph Johnson One of the Gang of Four 
160 John Gilmore Contributor to several GNU projects. Co-author of Bootstrap protocol which became DHCP. Founder of EFF, Cypherpunks mailing list, and Cygnus solutions.  
161 Carla Schroder Long-time Linux geek. 
162 Zack Rusin Qt graphics guru 
163 Donald Chamberlin Principle designer of SQL; ACM Intercollegiate Programming Contest judge, 1998-2005 
164 Rick Olsen Core Rails developer, wrote Mephisto and Beast 
165 Joe Marshall Lisp hacker 
166 Gavin King Original author of Hibernate, JBoss Seam 
167 Richard Karp Researcher in theory of algorithms 
168 Martin Odersky Invented Scala 
169 James Duncan Davidson Started Apache Ant and Apache Tomcat projects. Author of Java Servlet API and Java API for XML processing J2EE specifications. 
170 Brian Behlendorf Apache organizer 
171 Dan Farmer Co-wrote Satan and TCT 
172 Ray Ozzie Main architect of Lotus Notes. Now Chief Software Architect at Microsoft. 
173 Roger Hui Implementor of of J language 
174 Scott Meyers Author of Effective C++, More Effective C++, Effective STL 
175 Henry Spencer Wrote Unix regex library later incorporated into Tcl and Perl. Co-wrote C News news server 
176 Jim Blinn Graphics Fellow at Microsoft 
177 Steve Dekorte Invented Io language. 
178 Evan Phoenix Author of Rubinus compiler/virtual machine for Ruby 
179 Ray Tomlinson Wrote first networked email system and gave us the @-sign in email addresses. 
180 Larry Osterman Longtime Microsoftie 
181 Russ Cox Worked on Plan 9. Represented U.S. at 1995 International Olympiad in Informatics 
182 Peter Van Roy Contributor to Mozart/Oz programming system. Author of Concepts, Techniques, and Models of Computer Programming 
183 Paul 'Rusty' Russell One of Linus Torvald's top deputies. Wrote ipchains and netfilter/iptables packet filtering code 
184 Matt Mackall Wrote Mecurial version control system. 
185 Chris Wanstrath Notable Rails programmer 
186 Niklas Zennstrom Founder of Joost, Skype, Kazaa 
187 David Korn Wrote the Korn shell 
188 Avi Bryant Co-founder Dabble DB 
189 Barry Boehem Software metrics guru 
190 Lars Magne Ingebrigtsen Wrote Gnus and Gmane 
191 Jacob Kaplan-Moss Django developer. Wrote Tivo apps in Python and now hacking Python on the PSP 
192 John Mashey Early Unix hacker 
193 Keith Bostic Worked on BSD at Berkeley and one of the original authors of BerkeleyDB 
194 Gavin Schmidt Programmer on GISS climate modeling software. 
195 Robert Martin Founder and CEO of Object Mentor. C++ and Agile methods expert. 
196 Doug Lea Concurrency expert and systems programmer. 
197 Adele Goldberg Smalltalk designer and documenter. 
198 Dan Geer Security expert 
199 Austin Meyer Author of X-Plane and Space Combat flight simulators 
200 Neil Hodgson Wrote Scintilla and SciTE 
201 Brian Harvey UC Comp Sci professor. Author of Berkeley Logo 
202 Paul Haeberli Computer graphics researcher 
203 Rob McCool Wrote NCSA HTTPd; drafted Common Gateway Interface specification 
204 Radia Perlman Invented spanning-tree protocol 
205 Stefan Meyer-Kahlen Author of Shredder chess program 
206 Alessandro Rubini Linux kernel hacker 
207 Wouter van Oortmerssen Game programmer and language designer 
208 Craig McClanahan Original author of Apache Struts 
209 Will Crowther Wrote Adventure and the inner packet processing loop of the original internet IMPs 
210 Marcus Ranum Security expert and author of Firewall Toolkit and Network Flight Recorder 
211 Eric Allman Wrote sendmail 
212 Andrew Hunt Co-founder of Pragmatic Programmers 
213 Arthur Whitney Invented A+ and K languages and wrote prototype of J language 
214 Dave Thomas Co-founder of Pragmatic Programmers 
215 Dan Piponi Graphics programmer and theorist. 
216 Peter Weinberger The W in AWK 
217 Thomas Enebo Principle JRuby developer 
218 Richard Helm One of the Gang of Four 
219 Bob Scheifler Led the development of X Windows while the X Consortium was at MIT 
220 Charles Hedrick Lisp Unix hacker 
221 Guillaume Laforge Groovy project lead 
222 Ilya Zakharevich Major contributor to perl5 including a major reworking of the regex engine.  
223 John Vlissides One of the Gang of Four 
224 Dominic Giampaolo Wrote BeOS file system 
225 Salvatore Sanfilippo Software developer and security expert 
226 Rod Johnson Original author of Spring Framework 
227 Mathias Feist Co-author of Fritz chess program. 
228 Sam Leffler BSD hacker. Wrote FreeBSD wi-fi drivers 
229 Chris Torek BSDI os hacker 
230 Mike Karels System architect of BSD 4.3 and 4.4 releases. 
231 Jeff Mogul HP Fellow working on networking performance. Contributed to HTTP 1.1 spec 
232 Rob Barnaby Worked some on early Logo, wrote Word Star. Also did Stringcomp, an early string processing language. 
233 Eric Bina Co-wrote Mosaic. 
234 Simon Willison Django developer. Hacker Liason for Yahoo UK 
235 Frans Morsch Co-author of Fritz chess program. 
236 John Harper Wrote librep and the sawfish window manager 
237 Spencer Janssen Wrote xmonad, a tiling window manager implemened in Haskell 
238 John Socha Wrote many DOS software packages for Norton Computing 
239 Peter Karp Responsible for the development of BioCyc 
240 Mark Maybee Worked on ZFS DMU at Sun. 
241 Peter Norton Wrote the first version of the Norton Utilities 
242 Graeme Rocher Grails project lead 
243 Dan Sugalski Original architect of Parrot VM 
244 Erik Benson Cheif Janitorial Officer - Robot Coop 
245 Mark Fletcher Founder Bloglines, egroups 
246 Graham Spencer Co-founder Excite & Jot-Spot 
247 Mark Jason Dominus Perl programmer; author of Higher Order Perl 
248 Sape Mullender Member of Technical Staff, Lucent Technologies,Bell Labs Innovations, Computing Sciences Research, Murray Hill, New Jersey. 
249 Paul Mackerras Samba developer 
250 Val Henson Kernel hacker and file systems specialist. 
251 Greg Linden Founder Findory & worked at Amazon 
252 Dick Wall Co-host of the Java Posse podcast. Works at Google. 
253 Spencer Kimball Co-wrote GIMP. Googler. 
254 Jeff Bonwick Chief architect of ZFS 
255 Peter Mattis Co-wrote GIMP. Googler. 
256 Bernie Cosell One of the main software guys behind the original ARPANET IMP's and a master debugger. 
257 Shay Bushinsky Co-author of Junior chess program. 
258 Dennis Crawley DodgeBall 
259 Rainer Joswig Contributes to CL-HTTP 
260 Biz Stone Twitter 
261 Max Levchin Co-founder Pay Pal & Slide 
262 Joel Reymont Open Poker 
263 Jon Kleinberg Cornell Comp. Sci. professor. 
264 Joel Spolsky FogCreekSoftware 
265 Munjal Shah Co-founder Riya 
266 Dierk Koenig. Groovy, Grails contributor 
267 Peter-Paul Koch Javascript guru. Maintains quirksmode website. 
268 Frank Heart Managed the group that built the ARPANET. 
269 Thomas Knoll Original creator of Photoshop. 
270 Amir Ban Co-author of Junior chess program. 
271 Watts Humphrey CMM guru. 
272 Rusty Bobrow BBNer doing work in computational linguistics, speech recognition, and artificial intelligence. 
273 Simon Tatham Author of PuTTY 
274 Eric Swildens Founder Microline Software, Co-founder Speedera Networks 
275 Evan Williams Twitter 
276 Dan Weinreb Founder of Symbolics. Now at ITA. 
277 Robert Thau Early Apache developer. Started Bianca Troll 
278 Chrilly Donninger Author of the Hydra chess program. 
279 Matthew Ahrens Works on ZFS in kernel group at Sun 
280 Michael C. Schatz Author of a number of gene sequencing programs. 
281 Richard Fateman Computer algebraist. Worked on MacSysma and Maxima 
282 Alex Russell Created Dojo Javascript library 
283 Naval Ravikanth Founder vast.com 
284 Sam Stephenson Created Prototype Javascript library
根据信息量排序名单编辑本段回目录

# Name Description 
1 Linus Torvalds Wrote and maintains Linux kernel. Wrote GIT version control system. 
2 Chuck Moore Invented Forth 
3 Peter Norvig Director of Research at Google and author of the standard text on AI. 
4 Ken Thompson Inventor of UNIX 
5 L. Peter Deutsch Author of Ghostscript, Implemented Smalltalk-80 at Xerox PARC and Lisp 1.5 on PDP-1 
6 Donald Knuth Author of The Art of Computer Programming and TeX 
7 Alan Kay Inventor of Smalltalk. Coined the term "object-oriented programming". 
8 John Carmack Founder of id Software; lead programmer of Doom, Quake, and others. 
9 Guy Steele Co-inventor of Scheme and part of the Common Lisp Gang of Five. Currently working on Fortress. 
10 Joe Armstrong Inventor of Erlang 
11 Theo de Raadt Founder of OpenBSD project. Original author of OpenSSH. 
12 Bernie Cosell One of the main software guys behind the original ARPANET IMP's and a master debugger. 
13 Simon Peyton Jones Co-inventor of Haskell and lead designer of Glasgow Haskell Compiler. 
14 Jamie Zawinski Author of XEmacs and early Netscape/Mozilla hacker. 
15 Dan Ingalls Smalltalk implementor and designer. 
16 Douglas Crockford JSON founder, JavaScript Architect at Yahoo! 
17 Edi Weitz Lisp library hacker extraordinaire. Co-organizer of the European Common Lisp Meetings 2005 and 2006 
18 Steve Yegge Blogger and Googler 
19 David Heinemeier Hansson Invented Rails 
20 Zack Rusin Qt graphics guru 
21 Miguel de Icaza Wrote GNOME and Mono 
22 Richard Gabriel Lisper and Poet. Currently a Distinguished Engineer at IBM. Chair of OOPSLA 2007. 
23 Joshua Bloch Author of Java collections framework. Now at Google. 
24 Brendan Eich Inventor of Javascript. CTO of the Mozilla Corporation 
25 Andy Gavin Co-founder of Naughty Dog software. Wrote GOAL which was used to develop Jak and Daxter. 
26 Richard Stallman Wrote Emacs, gcc, and started the Free Software movement. 
27 Frances Allen Pioneer in optimizing compilers. First woman to win Turing Award (2006) and first woman IBM fellow. 
28 Yukihiro Matsumoto Invented Ruby 
29 Aaron Swartz Invented web.py 
30 Bill Joy Wrote BSD TCP/IP stack, vi 
31 Larry Wall Invented Perl 
32 Tim Sweeney Founder of Epic Games. Wrote the Unreal Engine. 
33 Paul Graham Lisp hacker and author. 
34 Brad Fitzpatrick Wrote LiveJournal, OpenID, memcached, Perlbal 
35 Michael Abrash Optimization expert 
36 James Gosling Invented Java, NeWS windowing system. 
37 Kent Beck Creator of XP 
38 Dennis Ritchie Invented C and contributed to development of UNIX 
39 Ward Cunningham Wrote the first Wiki and FIT. 
40 Fabrice Bellard Wrote QEMU, TinyCC, FFMPEG; Winner of 2001 IOCCC 
41 Roy Fielding One of the principle authors of HTTP specification. Invented REST. Co-founder of Apache project 
42 Olin Shivers Comp Sci professor interested in Scheme and ML. Wrote scsh 
43 Amy Fowler Core Java Swing developer 
44 Donald Chamberlin Principle designer of SQL; ACM Intercollegiate Programming Contest judge, 1998-2005 
45 Ray Tomlinson Wrote first networked email system and gave us the @-sign in email addresses. 
46 Rod Johnson Original author of Spring Framework 
47 Mark Jason Dominus Perl programmer; author of Higher Order Perl 
48 Brian Kernighan The K in AWK and K&R. Author of the original "hello, world" program. 
49 Bram Cohen Wrote BitTorrent 
50 Rob Pike Author of first bitmap windowing system for Unix. Worked on Plan 9. Now works at Google. 
51 Douglas Engelbart Invented computer mouse 
52 Bjarne Stroustrup Invented C++ 
53 Anders Hejlsberg Lead architect of C#, Architect of Delphi at Borland. Wrote what became Turbo Pascal 
54 Justin Frankel Wrote Winamp, NSIS, and Gnutella 
55 Wil Shipley Wrote Delicious Monster. Founded Omni Group 
56 Charles Simonyi Invented Hungarian notation. Original author of Microsoft Word. Head of the IP project at Microsoft, now running intentsoft.com 
57 Zed Shaw Wrote Mongrel (Rails HTTP server) 
58 Allison Randal Architect of Parrot virtual machine 
59 Bruce Momjian Core PostgreSQL developer 
60 Niklaus Wirth Invented Pascal, Modula, Oberon 
61 Tom Lane Core PostgreSQL developer responsible for optimizer. 
62 Ka-Ping Yee Python hacker extraordinaire. 
63 Jeff Dean Google Fellow in Systems Infrastructure Group. Co-inventor of MapReduce. 
64 Ola Bini Core JRuby developer 
65 Poul-Henning Kamp FreeBSD kernel hacker 
66 Wietse Venema Wrote Postfix. Co-wrote Satan and TCT 
67 Urs Hölzle Researcher behind Sun's HotSpot JVM technology. 
68 Paul Vixie Wrote BIND 
69 Evan Phoenix Author of Rubinus compiler/virtual machine for Ruby 
70 Larry Osterman Longtime Microsoftie 
71 Jacob Kaplan-Moss Django developer. Wrote Tivo apps in Python and now hacking Python on the PSP 
72 Keith Bostic Worked on BSD at Berkeley and one of the original authors of BerkeleyDB 
73 Radia Perlman Invented spanning-tree protocol 
74 Wouter van Oortmerssen Game programmer and language designer 
75 Bob Scheifler Led the development of X Windows while the X Consortium was at MIT 
76 Guillaume Laforge Groovy project lead 
77 Simon Willison Django developer. Hacker Liason for Yahoo UK 
78 Peter Karp Responsible for the development of BioCyc 
79 Michael C. Schatz Author of a number of gene sequencing programs. 
80 John McCarthy Invented Lisp 
81 Guido van Rossum Invented Python 
82 Steve Wozniak Wrote most of the original Apple II software. 
83 Robert Morris Wrote the Internet Worm and co-founded Viaweb with Paul Graham 
84 Andrew Tridgell Wrote Samba file server and co-invented rsync algorithm 
85 Audrey Tang Leader of Pugs project to implement Perl 6 in Haskell 
86 Paul Buchheit Creator of GMail 
87 Andy Hertzfeld Key Macintosh developer 
88 Raymond Chen Worked on OS/2, Windows 95, and Direct X 
89 Xavier Leroy Primary developer of OCaml. Wrote LinuxThreads threading package used in pre 2.6 Linux kernels 
90 Bill Atkinson Early Mac developer. Designed and implemented Hypercard 
91 David Cutler Architect of VMS and Windows NT 
92 Trevor Blackwell Principal at Viaweb. Now founder and CEO of Anybots 
93 Bertrand Meyer Invented Eiffel 
94 Alex Martelli Co-author of Python Cookbook and Author of Python in a Nutshell 
95 Bruce Eckel Founding member of ANSI/ISO C++ committee. Author of Thinking in Java and Thinking in C++. 
96 Richard Greenblatt Main implementor of Maclisp on PDP-6. Co-founded Lisp Machines, Inc. 
97 Alain Colmerauer Invented Prolog 
98 Don Stewart Haskell hacker 
99 Marshall Kirk McKusick Designed Berkeley Fast File System. 
100 Jim Hugunin Original author of Iron Python, now at Microsoft working on dynamic languages on the CLR. Co-designer of AspectJ language, lead development through 1.1 release. 
101 Roberto Ierusalimschy Invented Lua 
102 P.J. Plauger Worked on first commercial C compiler 
103 Don Hopkins Invented Pie Menus, working on One Laptop Per Child project. 
104 John Ousterhout Invented TCL 
105 Eric Meijer Architect in SQL server group at Microsoft working on combining functional programming with the CLR and SQL 
106 Udi Manber VP of Engineering at Google. Co-author of Glimpse, Agrep, and Harvest search packages. 
107 Gavin King Original author of Hibernate, JBoss Seam 
108 Dan Farmer Co-wrote Satan and TCT 
109 Jim Blinn Graphics Fellow at Microsoft 
110 Steve Dekorte Invented Io language. 
111 Ilya Zakharevich Major contributor to perl5 including a major reworking of the regex engine.  
112 Matthew Ahrens Works on ZFS in kernel group at Sun 
113 Alex Russell Created Dojo Javascript library 
114 Gerald Jay Sussman Co-creator of Scheme and co-author of The Structure And Interpretation of Computer Programs. 
115 Dan Bernstein Wrote djbns and qmail 
116 Andrew Tanenbaum Created Minix, advocate for micro-kernels. 
117 Erik Naggum Lisp hacker 
118 Martin Fowler Chief Scientist at Thoughtworks. Author of Refactoring and many other books. 
119 Matt Dillon FreeBSD hacker, founded DragonFly BSD project 
120 Leslie Lamport Distributed systems researcher and developer of LaTeX 
121 Why the lucky stiff Core Ruby developer and free spirit 
122 Douglas McIlroy Unix toolsmith; invented Unix pipelines 
123 Mark Pilgrim Wrote Universal Feed Parser. Author of Dive into Python and Dive into Accessibility.  
124 Philip Wadler Professor of Theoretical Computer Science at the University of Edinburgh. Contributed to design of Java, Haskell, and XQuery. 
125 Richard Hipp Wrote sqlite embedded SQL database 
126 Jeff Rubin According to Richard Gabriel a "code-writing savant". 
127 Adrian Holovaty Lead developer of Django 
128 Bram Moolenaar Wrote VIM (Vi IMproved) 
129 Luke Gorrie Lisp and Erlang hacker. Project lead for SLIME. 
130 Tim Peters Python hacker and author of Spambayes 
131 Alvy Ray Smith Graphics pioneer. Worked at LucasFilm, helped found Pixar. 
132 Damian Conway Perl hacker and three time winner of the Larry Wall award. Wrote Lingua::Romana::Perligata and others. 
133 Jarkko Oikarinen Started IRC 
134 Keith Packard X Windows hacker, founded X.Org Server project 
135 Butler Lampson Systems pioneer. Worked on Xerox's Alto. 
136 Dan Bricklin Wrote Visicalc 
137 Ralph Johnson One of the Gang of Four 
138 Carla Schroder Long-time Linux geek. 
139 Joe Marshall Lisp hacker 
140 Martin Odersky Invented Scala 
141 James Duncan Davidson Started Apache Ant and Apache Tomcat projects. Author of Java Servlet API and Java API for XML processing J2EE specifications. 
142 Brian Behlendorf Apache organizer 
143 Ray Ozzie Main architect of Lotus Notes. Now Chief Software Architect at Microsoft. 
144 Henry Spencer Wrote Unix regex library later incorporated into Tcl and Perl. Co-wrote C News news server 
145 Paul 'Rusty' Russell One of Linus Torvald's top deputies. Wrote ipchains and netfilter/iptables packet filtering code 
146 David Korn Wrote the Korn shell 
147 Avi Bryant Co-founder Dabble DB 
148 Lars Magne Ingebrigtsen Wrote Gnus and Gmane 
149 Doug Lea Concurrency expert and systems programmer. 
150 Adele Goldberg Smalltalk designer and documenter. 
151 Austin Meyer Author of X-Plane and Space Combat flight simulators 
152 Paul Haeberli Computer graphics researcher 
153 Craig McClanahan Original author of Apache Struts 
154 Will Crowther Wrote Adventure and the inner packet processing loop of the original internet IMPs 
155 Arthur Whitney Invented A+ and K languages and wrote prototype of J language 
156 Peter Weinberger The W in AWK 
157 Thomas Enebo Principle JRuby developer 
158 John Vlissides One of the Gang of Four 
159 Dominic Giampaolo Wrote BeOS file system 
160 Mike Karels System architect of BSD 4.3 and 4.4 releases. 
161 Rob Barnaby Worked some on early Logo, wrote Word Star. Also did Stringcomp, an early string processing language. 
162 Mark Maybee Worked on ZFS DMU at Sun. 
163 Dan Sugalski Original architect of Parrot VM 
164 Mark Fletcher Founder Bloglines, egroups 
165 Graham Spencer Co-founder Excite & Jot-Spot 
166 Paul Mackerras Samba developer 
167 Val Henson Kernel hacker and file systems specialist. 
168 Jeff Bonwick Chief architect of ZFS 
169 Rainer Joswig Contributes to CL-HTTP 
170 Joel Reymont Open Poker 
171 Peter-Paul Koch Javascript guru. Maintains quirksmode website. 
172 Frank Heart Managed the group that built the ARPANET. 
173 Evan Williams Twitter 
174 Chrilly Donninger Author of the Hydra chess program. 
175 Richard Fateman Computer algebraist. Worked on MacSysma and Maxima 
176 Alan Cox One of Linus Torvalds's main lieutenants. Wrote Linux TCP/IP code. 
177 Stephen Wolfram Invented Mathematica 
178 Philip Greenspun Author of Greenspun's Tenth Law and sometimes instructor at MIT 
179 Bill Gosper One of the original MIT hackers. Worked on Lisp machines, Maclisp, and Macsyma  
180 Whitfield Diffie Discovered principle of public key cryptography 
181 Sergey Brin Founded Google 
182 Gregor Kiczales Wrote Common Lisp MOP. Invented Aspect Oriented programming. 
183 Alexander Stepanov Author of the Standard Template Library for C++ 
184 Larry Page Founded Google 
185 Marc Andreessen Co-wrote Mosaic. Founded Netscape. 
186 Danny Hillis Founder of Thinking Machines 
187 Vinton Cerf Father of TCP/IP 
188 Van Jacobson Redesigned TCP/IP flow control algorithms, saving the net from total collapse. Eponymous inventor of Van Jacobson TCP/IP header compression. 
189 Bill Gates Wrote BASIC for Altair 
190 Henry Baker One of the founder of Symbolics; comp sci. researcher 
191 Brad Cox Invented Objective C 
192 Jonathan Rees Designed T dialect of Scheme and co-wrote Scheme 48 
193 Ivan Sutherland Invented Sketchpad, precursor to modern GUIs 
194 Mark Shuttleworth Founded Thawte and Ubuntu project. Previously a Debian developer 
195 Ingo Molnár Linux hacker, author of many Linux perfomance improvements. 
196 Kent Pitman Technical Editor of Common Lisp ANSI standard 
197 Jon Bentley Author of Programming Pearls books. 
198 Tom Duff Invented Duff's device and noted graphics programmer 
199 Dave Fox Lisp hacker, directior of Lispworks Ltd. 
200 Marco Baringer Common Lisp hacker, author of Uncommon Web 
201 John Foderaro Original author of Franz's Allegro Common Lisp 
202 Elizabeth Rather Colleague of Chuck Moore and second ever Forth programmer 
203 Rasmus Lerdorf Invented PHP 
204 Steve Russell One of John McCarthy's grad students. Brought Lisp to life by hand-coding EVAL in assembler. Wrote Spacewar. 
205 Ellen Spertus Head of Interdisciplinary Computer Science department at Mills College 
206 Charles Nutter Principle JRuby developer 
207 Edward Feigenbaum Father of Expert Systems 
208 Tom Lord Scheme and C hacker. Wrote GNU Arch 
209 Erich Gamma One of the Gang of Four 
210 Mitchell Kapor Founded Lotus 
211 Janus Friis Founder of Joost, Skype, Kazaa 
212 Graham Nelson Invented Inform language used to program interatvive fiction 
213 Mark Zuckerberg Founder and CEO of Facebook 
214 Scott McKay Lisp and Dylan designer. 
215 Paul Allen Co-founded Microsoft. 
216 Richard Kelsey Co-wrote Scheme 48 and edited R5RS 
217 Nick Bradbury Wrote HomeSite, TopStyle, and FeedDemon 
218 John Gilmore Contributor to several GNU projects. Co-author of Bootstrap protocol which became DHCP. Founder of EFF, Cypherpunks mailing list, and Cygnus solutions.  
219 Rick Olsen Core Rails developer, wrote Mephisto and Beast 
220 Richard Karp Researcher in theory of algorithms 
221 Roger Hui Implementor of of J language 
222 Scott Meyers Author of Effective C++, More Effective C++, Effective STL 
223 Russ Cox Worked on Plan 9. Represented U.S. at 1995 International Olympiad in Informatics 
224 Peter Van Roy Contributor to Mozart/Oz programming system. Author of Concepts, Techniques, and Models of Computer Programming 
225 Matt Mackall Wrote Mecurial version control system. 
226 Chris Wanstrath Notable Rails programmer 
227 Niklas Zennstrom Founder of Joost, Skype, Kazaa 
228 John Mashey Early Unix hacker 
229 Gavin Schmidt Programmer on GISS climate modeling software. 
230 Robert Martin Founder and CEO of Object Mentor. C++ and Agile methods expert. 
231 Dan Geer Security expert 
232 Neil Hodgson Wrote Scintilla and SciTE 
233 Stefan Meyer-Kahlen Author of Shredder chess program 
234 Alessandro Rubini Linux kernel hacker 
235 Marcus Ranum Security expert and author of Firewall Toolkit and Network Flight Recorder 
236 Richard Helm One of the Gang of Four 
237 Charles Hedrick Lisp Unix hacker 
238 Salvatore Sanfilippo Software developer and security expert 
239 Sam Leffler BSD hacker. Wrote FreeBSD wi-fi drivers 
240 Chris Torek BSDI os hacker 
241 Jeff Mogul HP Fellow working on networking performance. Contributed to HTTP 1.1 spec 
242 John Harper Wrote librep and the sawfish window manager 
243 Spencer Janssen Wrote xmonad, a tiling window manager implemened in Haskell 
244 Graeme Rocher Grails project lead 
245 Erik Benson Cheif Janitorial Officer - Robot Coop 
246 Sape Mullender Member of Technical Staff, Lucent Technologies,Bell Labs Innovations, Computing Sciences Research, Murray Hill, New Jersey. 
247 Greg Linden Founder Findory & worked at Amazon 
248 Dick Wall Co-host of the Java Posse podcast. Works at Google. 
249 Spencer Kimball Co-wrote GIMP. Googler. 
250 Peter Mattis Co-wrote GIMP. Googler. 
251 Shay Bushinsky Co-author of Junior chess program. 
252 Dennis Crawley DodgeBall 
253 Biz Stone Twitter 
254 Max Levchin Co-founder Pay Pal & Slide 
255 Joel Spolsky FogCreekSoftware 
256 Munjal Shah Co-founder Riya 
257 Dierk Koenig. Groovy, Grails contributor 
258 Rusty Bobrow BBNer doing work in computational linguistics, speech recognition, and artificial intelligence. 
259 Simon Tatham Author of PuTTY 
260 Eric Swildens Founder Microline Software, Co-founder Speedera Networks 
261 Robert Thau Early Apache developer. Started Bianca Troll 
262 Naval Ravikanth Founder vast.com 
263 Sam Stephenson Created Prototype Javascript library 
264 Hal Abelson Abelson of Abelson and Sussman. MIT professor. 
265 Marvin Minsky Artifical Intelligence researcher 
266 Bruce Schneier Security expert. Creator of Twofish block cipher. 
267 Michael Feathers XP guru 
268 Barry Boehem Software metrics guru 
269 Brian Harvey UC Comp Sci professor. Author of Berkeley Logo 
270 Rob McCool Wrote NCSA HTTPd; drafted Common Gateway Interface specification 
271 Eric Allman Wrote sendmail 
272 Andrew Hunt Co-founder of Pragmatic Programmers 
273 Dave Thomas Co-founder of Pragmatic Programmers 
274 Dan Piponi Graphics programmer and theorist. 
275 Mathias Feist Co-author of Fritz chess program. 
276 Eric Bina Co-wrote Mosaic. 
277 Frans Morsch Co-author of Fritz chess program. 
278 John Socha Wrote many DOS software packages for Norton Computing 
279 Peter Norton Wrote the first version of the Norton Utilities 
280 Jon Kleinberg Cornell Comp. Sci. professor. 
281 Amir Ban Co-author of Junior chess program. 
282 Watts Humphrey CMM guru. 
283 Dan Weinreb Founder of Symbolics. Now at ITA. 
284 Thomas Knoll Original creator of Photoshop.